Statement of the Kashag on the 42nd Anniversary of the Tibetan Democracy Day

Today, as we commemorate the 42nd anniversary of Tibetan democracy, I
extend my warm greetings on Kashag’s behalf to Tibetans both in and
outside Tibet, governments who have extended all sorts of help to
Tibetans, members of the Assembly, Governmental and Non-Governmental
Organizations, members of Students for Free Tibet and the masses.

A Political system known as “Rule of People” that prevailed three
thousand years back in India, the land of Aryas, was adopted and
practiced widely by many countries all across the world. This noble
political system known as Democracy has attracted many people of most
nations. It is well known fact that in their pursuit for democracy, it
has cost them their lives and several years of struggles and conflicts.
Nevertheless, we Tibetans have been graciously bestowed upon with
democracy by His Holiness the Dalai Lama out of love, compassion and
intellectual supremacy without us having to slightly struggle for
democracy like others.

During these 42 years, the formation initially of an Assembly
of Tibetan People’s Deputies elected by the people and of framing of a
constitution reflecting Tibet’s future political entity, have taught us
democratic practices and knowledge in 30 years that has finally led us
to the expansion of an Assembly and finalization of our charter in 1991
resulting in a complete synchronization of legislative, executive and
judiciary pillars of a democracy with systematic check and balance.
This resulted in a establishment of a system where the power of
decision making solely lies in the Assembly of Tibetan People’s
Deputies or the people.

During the eleven years of a governance with principles which
have been enshrined in our Charter as per the present needs and
requirements of our people, it is a matter of pride that the knowledge
amongst Tibetans in exile on the merits of democracy has improved
greatly.

And in particular, it is a surprising fact that we have been
able to introduce a system with all the democratic merits at a time
when the Gaden Podrang government founded by the Great Fifth Dalai Lama
has firmly been in existence without disruption.

I would like to reiterate here that it is the historic
responsibility of all the Tibetans especially today’s younger
generation who are enriched with both traditional and modern education
to prepare themselves and stride towards a future long term goal.

In retrospect over the proud moments of today and concerning
the development in the democratic process of our exile government, the
Tibetan Central Government’s task and principles are well sync with
democratic system and principles and are able to follow as per a legal
and legitimate governance.

However, existence of a systematic local Assemblies, election
of Local leaders by the local Tibetan residents and accountability of
the leaders to the Local Assembly of which are in adherence to exile’s
Tibetan Charter and wishes of His Holiness the Dalai Lama, have not
been satisfactory. Therefore, the 12th Kashag (Cabinet) strives to have
as much local leaders directly elected by the people as possible and
also enhance the Local Assemblies with greater potentiality as are
clearly outlined in the charter for Tibetan in exile. I like to request
the Assembly of Tibetan People’s Deputies and the masses to facilitate
and support us in this endeavor.

I urge all the Tibetans to extend their support towards the
realization of a united existence of the three provinces with genuine
autonomy and proper democratic system through a negotiated settlement
with leadership of Beijing on the basis of His Holiness the Dalai
Lama’s Five Point Peace Plan and Strasborg Proposal.

Finally, I pray for the long life and spontaneous fulfillment
of all wishes His Holiness the Dalai Lama and a celebration soon of
Tibetans in Tibet and those in exile together over the restoration of a
democratic civilization crossing all the stages of democratic process.


